Add upgrade instructions from v3 to v4 (#24)
projectsyn/component-keycloak: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/upgrade-3.x-to-4.x.adoc

= Upgrade from 3.x to 4.x

This guide describes the steps to perform an upgrade of the component from version 3.x to 4.x.

The major changes affect the ingress feature and configuration.

> This component now features re-encrypted ingress by default resp. encrypts cluster-internal traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This component now features re-encrypted ingress by default.
That is, traffic between the ingress controller and Keycloak is now encrypted by default.
```

== Step-by-step guide

. Decide where you want to terminate user traffic.
  You can either terminate the TLS session at the ingress controller and re-encrypt traffic to Keycloak.
  Or you can pass-through the TLS traffic directly to Keycloak, provided the ingress controller supports TLS pass-through.
. Decide how you aim to provision and rotate TLS certificates.
  The cert-manager operator provides easy Let's Encrypt certificate provisioning by default.
  You can also provision your own CA issued certificate.

The sections below explain more.

=== Changed parameters

* `ingress.secretName` has moved to `ingress.tls.secretName`.
* `ingress.enabled` changed to `true` by default.
* `ingress.annotations` received several annotations depending on `tls.provider` and `tls.termination`.
* `helm_values.extraVolumes` and `helm_values.extraVolumeMounts` got an additional volume/mount from the `tls.secretName` secret.

> * `helm_values.ingress.servicePort` changed to `https` by default.

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning more explicitly that users must update their configuration to match these new parameters if they've already configured some of them.

=== Re-encrypted TLS with Let's Encrypt

> User traffic > Ingress controller (LE certificate) > Re-encrypt with self-signed certificate > Keycloak

This mode is the default in v4.x.

. Generate new long-running self-signed certificate and xref:how-tos/keycloak-tls.adoc[store in Vault].

=== Re-encrypted TLS with CA issued certificate

> User traffic > Ingress controller (own certificate) > Re-encrypt with self-signed certificate > Keycloak

. Set the provider
+
[source,yaml]
----
parameters:
  keycloak:
    tls:
      provider: vault
----

. Generate new long-running self-signed certificate and xref:how-tos/keycloak-tls.adoc[store in Vault].

=== Pass-through TLS with Let's Encrypt

> User traffic > Ingress controller (pass-through) > Keycloak (with LE certificate)

> NOTE: This mode requires an ingress controller that supports SSL/TLS pass-through.

Reviewer: Maybe give an example on how to enable pass-through for component-ingress-nginx (IIRC there is one in the parameters documentation already).
